well Egypt's President says he will not
allow refugees from Gaza into his
country adding that it would make the
Sinai Peninsula a target for
Israel the whole concept of transferring
Palestinians from the Gaza Strip into
Sinai is simply moving the fighting and
resistance from the Gaza Strip to Sinai
which means Sinai will become a base for
military operations against Israel and
then Israel will try to defend itself
and direct its military operations
against Egypt and
Egypt is committed to establishing peace
we should remain dedicated to our
investment in the peace process we
should come up with a viable solution if
there is a transfer let it be to the
Negev Desert in Israel let Israel do
what they wish to do with the military
operatives in Gaza before returning the
Palestinians back all acts by Israel
cutting water and electricity is a means
to forcibly transfer Palestinians into
the Sinai Peninsula which we totally
reject well let's take a closer look at
the Rafa crossing the sole crossing
point between Egypt and the southern end
of the Gaza Strip it's gaza's only
Lifeline to the outside world but
supplies coming into Gaza through Rafa
require Israeli approval and it's also
only for small vehicles and the movement
of people now the other Crossing in the
south is Karam Abu Salam it's located
where the borders of Egypt Gaza and
Israel meet it's also the sole passage
for larger trucks carrying goods Fuel
and Aid into Gaza hundreds of tons of
aid from several countries have been
held up in Egypt pending a deal for its
safe delivery to Gaza and the evacuation
of some foreign passport holders through
the other Rafa border crossing well we
can now speak to Hussein haridi he's the
former Egyptian assistant foreign
minister he joins me now from Cairo sir
I'll start by asking you for your
reaction to president cce's statement we
just listened to can you explain for our
viewers why Cairo is so adamant that
Palestinian refugees should not be sent
to Egypt or
Jordan the question from an Egyptian
point of view as explained uh by
President CC this morning is that we we
reject the uh transfer of uh
Palestinians either from Gaza to Sinai
or or from the West Bank to Jordan
because uh we are for the establishment
of an independent Palestinian State uh
uh on the West Bank and in G
if the Palestinians in
both uh the West Bank and Gaza would
leave their territories then there will
never be a Palestinian State that's that
the reason why Egypt is against the
transfer of uh Palestinians to either
Egypt or or Jordan of course in the same
time the president pointed out that we
want to uh send humanitarian Aid into
the Gaza Strip and that the G and that
the Egyptian side of the Rafa Crossing
has always been open the problem was on
the Palestinian side that was bombarded
on various occasions by the Israeli Air
Force uh on the other hand the president
made clear that when Egypt had signed a
peace treaty with Israel uh in
1979 uh it was betting on peace not only
between Egypt and Israel but peace for
the Palestinians and peace between uh
between Israel and other Arab countries
mainly Lebanon Syria and Jordan Jordan
signed the peace treaty back in October
1994 and and and of course we are
working the president said today that
for peace from an egptian point of view
is a strategic option quoting him and we
would we would like that the the
International Community particularly the
United States will join Egypt in its
efforts to make to make this dream come
true so I have a number of questions for
you about the International Community
and and those efforts in just a moment
but I want to pick up on what you were
saying there about humanitarian Aid
because we have been hearing that there
is some kind of Aid agreement that's
been reached the US president was saying
so but there have been scant details and
we know that what Israel and the US was
asking for for foreign Nationals to
leave for hostages to be released do you
know more about the framework of this
steal well according to what president
President Biden uh made clear uh before
he left Israel today he said that he
agreed with the Israeli leaders that
humanitarian Aid would enter uh the uh
Gaza Strip and uh after that the Israeli
Prime Minister made a statement in which
he said that uh Aid humanitarian a Aid
would cross into Gaza only from the RAF
Crossing uh President Biden President
Biden mentioned uh that the uh entry of
the aid would be subjected to inspection
inspection and uh this is the first
condition the second condition will be
that the aid or some parts of the aid
won't go to Hamas we have no problem we
have no problem although the question of
inspection raises raises in itself some
some some interrogation marks uh but
anyhow the most important the most
urgent uh uh task right now is that the
convoys of human humanitarian Aid start
entering the Gaza Strip as soon as
possible so let me ask you about the
logistics here because it's my
understanding that Rafa is is a relative
ly small border crossing right so a lot
of the trucks would actually need to
travel through Karam Abu Salam that
would be the Principal route in for Aid
how much control does Egypt have of that
Crossing well as you said in your report
or one of your reporters correspondents
just made made clear Karam Abu is is is
initially it was for threat uh convoys H
we will we will work with the United
Nations we will work with the United
Nations with the Israeli authorities in
order to move the humanitarian Aid
either from The Crossing if it's
possible or from the kamam
Abu Crossing well we certainly hope that
those convoys do get moving very quickly
indeed husin haridi there a former
Egyptian assistant foreign minister
thank you so much for spending time with
us here on alera sir thank you
madam